Add Scalar DB server deployment guide for EKS (#175)
scalar-labs/scalar-kubernetes: docs/ManualDeploymentGuideScalarDBServerOnEKS.md

# Deploy Scalar DB Server on AWS

The Scalar DB server is a standalone gRPC server that implements the Scalar DB interface.
We can deploy the Scalar DB server on any Kubernetes service.
This guide will help you to deploy a Scalar DB server in AWS EKS.

## What we create

![image](images/scalardbserver-eks-diagram.png)

In this guide, we will create the following components.

* A VPC with NAT gateway
* An EKS cluster with two Kubernetes node groups
* A managed database service supported by Scalar DB.
* A Bastion instance with a public IP
* Amazon CloudWatch

## Step 1. Configure your network

Configure a secure network according to your organizational standard or application requirements. This section shows how to configure a secure network for Scalar DB server deployment.

### Requirements

* You must create VPC with public NAT gateways on private networks. NAT gateway is necessary to enable internet access for Kubernetes node group subnets.

>   * Internet access is required to pull Scalar DB server image for Kubernetes deployment.

Reviewer: Bullet points are not supposed to be used to separate sentences.
If this is the reason for the first sentence, you can just append in the first sentence.

Author: Thank you.
I have updated it and added it in the first sentence itself.

* You must follow this [AWS official guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/network_reqs.html) when creating subnets for EKS.

### Recommendations

* You should create private subnets for the Kubernetes cluster for production.
* You should create a bastion server to manage the Kubernetes cluster.
* You should create 3 subnets in 3 availability zones for the Kubernetes cluster for higher availability.
* You should create subnets with the prefix at least `/24` for the Kubernetes cluster to work without issues even after scaling.

### Steps

* Create an Amazon VPC based on the [AWS official guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/creating-a-vpc.html) with the above requirements and recommendations.

## Step 2. Set up a database

In this section, you will set up a database for the Scalar DB server.

### Requirements

* You must have a database that the Scalar DB server supports.

### Steps

* Follow [Set up a database guide](./SetupDatabase.md) to set up a database for Scalar DB.

## Step 3. Configure EKS

> This section shows how to create an EKS cluster and 2 managed node groups (one for Scalar DB server and envoy and one for logs and metrics collection) for the Scalar DB server and monitor agent deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section shows how to create an EKS cluster and 2 managed node groups (one for Scalar DB server and envoy, and the other for logs and metrics collection) for the Scalar DB server and monitor agent deployment.
```

Author: Thank you.
I have updated the sentence as suggested.

# Deploy Scalar DB Server on AWS

The Scalar DB server is a standalone gRPC server that implements the Scalar DB interface.
We can deploy the Scalar DB server on any Kubernetes service.
This guide will help you to deploy a Scalar DB server in AWS EKS.

## What we create

![image](images/scalardbserver-eks-diagram.png)

In this guide, we will create the following components.

* A VPC with NAT gateway
* An EKS cluster with two Kubernetes node groups
* A managed database service

>     * DynamoDB

Author: Thank you.
I have changed it to make the guide more general.

* A Bastion instance with a public IP
* Amazon CloudWatch

## Step 1. Configure your network

Configure a secure network according to your organizational standard or application requirements. This section shows how to configure a secure network for Scalar DB server deployment.

### Requirements

* You must create VPC with public NAT gateways on private networks. NAT gateway is necessary to enable internet access for Kubernetes node group subnets.

> * You must create at least 2 subnets for the EKS cluster in different availability zones. It is mandatory to create an EKS cluster.

Author: Thank you.
I have added the link to refer to the official documentation.

### Recommendations

* You should create private subnets for the Kubernetes cluster for production.
* You should create a bastion server to manage the Kubernetes cluster.
* You should create 3 subnets in 3 availability zones for the Kubernetes cluster for higher availability.

> * You should choose public subnets when creating an EKS cluster for public access.

Author: I think adding it to `Requirements` may not be ideal as it depends on the requirement of the user as you have mentioned.
So I have removed this sentence.
Thank you for noting this.

* You should create subnets with the prefix at least `/24` for the Kubernetes cluster to work without issues even after scaling.

### Steps

> * Create an Amazon VPC based on the [AWS official guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/working-with-vpcs.html) with the above requirements and recommendations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Create an Amazon VPC based on the [AWS official guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/creating-a-vpc.html) with the above requirements and recommendations.
```
The EKS official document explains how to create VPC for EKS.
So, I think it is better to refer to this document.

Author: Thank you.
I have updated the link.

## Step 2. Set up a database

In this section, you will set up a database for the Scalar DB server.

### Requirements

* You must have a database that the Scalar DB server supports.

### Steps

* Follow [Set up a database guide](./SetupDatabase.md) to set up a database for Scalar DB.

## Step 3. Configure EKS

> This section shows how to create an EKS cluster and 2 managed node groups(one for Scalar DB server and envoy and one for logs and metrics collection) for the Scalar DB server and monitor agent deployment.

Author: Thank you. I have added the space.

### Prerequisites

> Install the following tools on your bastion for controlling the EKS cluster:

Author: Thank you for mentioning this.
I have added a link to install `eksctl` also in prerequisites.

> * [AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/install-cliv2.html): In this guide, AWS CLI is used to create a kubeconfig file to access the EKS cluster.

Author: Thank you.
I have updated the link as suggested.

> * [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/): Kubernetes command-line tool to manage EKS cluster. Kubectl 1.19 or higher is required.

Author: Thank you.
I have updated the link to the official EKS document.

* Configure kubectl to connect to your Kubernetes cluster using the `aws eks update-kubeconfig` command.

   ```console
   aws eks --region <region-code> update-kubeconfig --name <cluster_name>
   ```

## Step 4. Install Scalar DB server

After creating a Kubernetes cluster, the next step is to deploy the Scalar DB server into the EKS cluster.
This section shows how to install the Scalar DB server to the EKS cluster with [Helm charts](https://github.com/scalar-labs/helm-charts).

### Prerequisites

Install the Helm on your bastion server to deploy helm charts:

* [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/): Helm is a command-line tool to manage releases in the EKS cluster. In this tutorial, it is used to deploy the Scalar DB server helm chart to the EKS cluster. Helm version 3.5 or the latest is required.

### Steps

The following steps show how to install the Scalar DB server on EKS:

1. Download the following Scalar DB server configuration files from the [scalar-kubernetes repository](../conf).
   Note that they may be versioned in the future, so you might want to change the branch to use a proper version.

>     * scalardb-custom-values.yaml

Author: > 1. About tolerations
> 2. About podAntiAffinity

For both `tolerations` and `podAntiAffinity`. There was no problem without adding these configurations.

> Server manifest (reasons that there is different between scalardb-custom-values.yaml and scalardl-custom-values.yaml), could you please tell me that?

There was no specific reason for not adding these.
I had missed adding these configurations and hence not tested with adding them.
But it may cause an issue in the future if deployed other services in nodes.
Thank you for noting this.
I will update the configuration file `scalardb-custom-values.yaml` and I will create as a new PR for that after testing it.

    
    # List the Scalar charts.
      helm search repo scalar-labs
    
    # Install Scalar DB with a release name `my-release-scalardb`
      helm upgrade --version <chart version> --install my-release-scalardb scalar-labs/scalardb --namespace default -f scalardb-custom-values.yaml
    ```

Note:

* The same commands can be used to upgrade the pods.
* Release name `my-release-scalardb` can be changed at your convenience.
* The `chart version` can be obtained from `helm search repo scalar-labs` output
* `helm ls -a` command can list currently installed releases.

## Step 5. Monitor the Cluster

It is critical to actively monitor the overall health and performance of the cluster running in production.
You can use Container Insights to collect performance metrics and Fluent Bit to collect logs of the EKS cluster.
This section shows how to configure monitoring and logging for your EKS cluster.

### Recommendations

* You should enable monitoring for EKS in production.
* You should configure the cloudwatch agent in the EKS cluster for collecting metrics from pods.
* You should configure Fluent Bit in the EKS cluster for collecting logs from pods.

>     * You should create a CloudWatch Logs policy with `CreateLogGroup`, `CreateLogStream`, and `PutLogEvents` permissions and attach the policy to the Node instance role.

Reviewer 2: I think this is a requirement when we use the CloudWatch.
Also, the EKS official document explains the prerequisites (includes IAM role configuration).
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/Container-Insights-prerequisites.html

So, I think it is better to move this sentence to the **Requirements** section and refer to this official document.

Author: Thank you for the suggestion.
I have created a **Requirements** section and moved this sentence with reference to the official documentation.

service/my-release-scalardb-headless        ClusterIP      None           <none>                                                                           50051/TCP                         7m2s    app.kubernetes.io/app=scalardb,app.kubernetes.io/instance=my-release-scalardb,app.kubernetes.io/name=scalardb
service/my-release-scalardb-metrics         ClusterIP      172.20.11.48   <none>                                                                           8080/TCP                          7m2s    app.kubernetes.io/app=scalardb,app.kubernetes.io/instance=my-release-scalardb,app.kubernetes.io/name=scalardb
```

### Confirm EKS cluster monitoring

* Confirm the EKS cluster metrics are available in CloudWatch `Container Insights`.
* Confirm the Container logs are available in CloudWatch `Log`.

### Confirm Database monitoring

* Confirm the database metrics are available in CloudWatch metrics.

## Clean up the resources

When you need to remove the resources you created, remove them in the following order.

* Scalar DB server
* Managed node group
* EKS cluster

> * DynamoDB

Author: Thank you.
I have changed it to make the guide more general.
